MTM-61884: Change log for tenant context operation api (#2805)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-undefined-notifications-tenant-context-event-type-filter.md

---

> date: 2025-01-10

Reviewer: Note: Don't forget to update this before merging.

title: changes to Notifications 2.0 tenant context subscriptions with event API filter
change_type:
  - value: change-3BQrQ6adS

>     label: API change

Reviewer: Issue: This should be a `Feature` type change, with the appropriate `value:` for that type. `API change` is only for breaking changes. See the process documentation for more details.

product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-JlFdtOPva
    label: REST API
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity

> ---

Reviewer: Issue: Please add `ticket:` and `version:` fields.

Notifications 2.0 subscriptions may specify the {{< product-c8y-iot >}}  APIs to subscribe to, for example `events` or `measurements`.

> If the events API is specifically included as the only API in a Subscription's filter, a typeFilter was also required be set in that filter to make the subscription work.

Reviewer: Question: Is it really true that the type filter was only required when `events` was the only API specified?

Author: it is what mentioned in the ADR, that it works with wild card but doesn't work if event api is specified.

Reviewer: Ah yes, I remember now. The type filter was always a pointless restriction IMHO, and it didn't even work properly anyway!

> The restriction requiring a typeFilter when subscribing to the events API has been removed. Subscriptions to the events API can now be created without specifying a typeFilter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The restriction requiring a type filter when subscribing to the `events` API in the tenant context has been removed. Tenant context subscriptions to the `events` API can now be created without specifying a type filter.
```

---

> date: 2025-01-10

Reviewer 2: see above

> title: changes to Notifications 2.0 tenant context subscriptions with event API filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Changes to Notifications 2.0 tenant context subscriptions with event API filter
```

change_type:

>   - value: change-3BQrQ6adS

Reviewer: Issue: This needs to change to match the type. See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pU2VIdJUIX1mKKRXF1GNHFZzKtCmTcRz/edit#heading=h.2bn6wsx

    label: Feature
product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-JlFdtOPva
    label: REST API
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-60734

> version: 2025.26.0

Reviewer: Question: Should this be `2025.30.0`?

---

> Notifications 2.0 subscriptions may specify the {{< product-c8y-iot >}}  APIs to subscribe to, for example `events` or `measurements`.
> If the events API is specifically included as the only API in a Subscription's filter, a typeFilter was also required be set in that filter to make the subscription work.

Reviewer: Nitpick:
```suggestion
Notifications 2.0 subscriptions may specify the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} APIs to subscribe to, for example `events` or `measurements`.
If the `events` API was specifically included as the only API in a tenant context subscription filter, a type filter was also required be set in that filter to make the subscription work.
```

> If the `events` API was specifically included as the only API in a tenant context subscription filter, a type filter was also required be set in that filter to make the subscription work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `events` API was specifically included as the only API in a tenant context subscription filter, a type filter was also required to be set in that filter to make the subscription work.
```
